# IamMfa

Creates a managed policy and optional administrative group which forces the use
of MFA. It is no longer considered best practice to use long-lived credentials.
Instead AWS recommends the use of temporary credentials and MFA authentication.

Sites using SSO federation are able to use
[saml2aws](https://github.com/Versent/saml2aws) and sites with AWS SSO 
[have built-in support](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-sso.html)
in the AWS CLI. This template provides IAM resources and shell integration
for when these options are unavailable.

**Important Note:** In most cases, 
                    [enabling AWS SSO](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/step1.html)
                    would be preferred to the solution described here.
          
## IAM Configuration

Once the stack is deployed, take the following steps in the AWS Web Console:

**First:** In order to **_prevent accidental lock-out_**, ensure that you are able
           to connect using the account's root credentials or work in concert
           with another administrator.
           
**Next:** Ensure that you have working MFA configured on your IAM account and
          that your web console session was MFA-authenticated.
           
**If:** You opted **not** to create an administrative group in the stack (by
        setting `CreateAdminGroup` to `false`), you can instead assign the
        managed policy (named `RequireMFA` by default) to your existing admin
        group. In this case, you will want to work in concert with someone who
        has root credential access to avoid accidental lock-out.
        
**Otherwise:** For each admin user, add them to the new admin group before
               removing them from their prior group. This way, when you modify
               your own user, there will not be a gap where you do not have
               permissions.
               
**Finally:** Review other, non-administrative users and consider enforcing MFA
             for their access as well.
          
## Shell Integration

Along with this template a small interactive shell script
([awsmfa.sh](awsmfa.sh)) is provided which wraps the process of fetching
temporary credentials using MFA. On a successful MFA authorization, it will
output shell commands to set the appropriate environment variables:

``` bash
$ /opt/awsmfa.sh
      User: myuser
MFA Device: arn:aws:iam::1234567890:mfa/myuser

Enter MFA Code: 993658
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIA3V6WKG3T4125T3P3; export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=0AA4Ek9wgay...; export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=FwoGZXIvYXdz...; export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN
```

For convenience, you can wrap this in an `eval` with a shell alias:

``` bash
awsmfa='eval $(/opt/awsmfa.sh)'
```
